At the moment this network is working correctly as an example rather for keeping the loop back a broader
one and it can campaign gigabit 0 0 on brought a one to one can paying the loop back of router 4 and
can ping
the gigabit 00 interface on route of 4.
But in the same way as you have with OSB Version 2 you can enable passive interfaces.
So if we use the command passive interface default that will make all interfaces passive.
In other words the Rada wrote a three will not form neighbor relationships on these interfaces or sent
updates out of those interfaces so you can see both neighbor relationships have come down show
IP vs 6 or SPF neighbor they are no neighbor relationships right one is no longer able to ping router
for
on right at 2 we can see that the neighbor relationship has gone down show IP vs 6 over SPF neighbor
we only have one neighbor relationship.
So from a troubleshooting point of view if you can ping through an OS and network check that the neighbor
relationships are established.
If the neighbor relationships aren't established check that SPF is enabled on all the relevant interfaces
in the right areas so make sure that your areas are configured correctly on the relevant interfaces
so Rider 3 doesn't have a neighbor relationship.
Make sure that A is P.F. is enabled on the relevant interfaces if it is enabled on the interfaces check
your configuration and make sure that you haven't got passive interfaces so as an example here we can
see that all interfaces have gone passive or we could use the command show IP vs 6 or SPF interface
and notice we have this output no hellos.
Passive interface and we can see that on gigabyte 0 1 and we can see that on gigabit 0 0.
So check that passive hasn't been configured on the rudder.
So in this example what I'll do is disable the passive interface on gigabit 00
so no passive interface interface gigabit.
Zero zero.
And what we should see is that a neighbor relationship is formed and there you go so do show IP vs 6
of SPF neighbor.
We can see a neighbor relationship has been established on gigabit 00 and we could do something similar
on gigabit.
0 1 and notice the neighbor relationship has come up.
So be careful with passive interface.
You can setup a one passive interface like gigabit 0 1.
Or you can enable passive interfaces globally and then disable them to do show run pipe or SPF
notice this configuration.
We've enabled default passive interfaces so all interfaces will be passive but then we have overridden
the passive option on this interface and this interface typically you only enable passive interfaces
on links to external networks or to user facing v lands as an example where you don't want your users
to learn or SPF Roth's another issue may be that 0 SPF wasn't enabled on an interface so do show run
interface gigabit.
0 1 if this command wasn't configured the relationship would not form on that interface so do show IP
vs 6 SPF neighbor shows us that no neighbor relationship exists on gigabit 0 1.
And that's where this command to show IP vs 6 0 SPF interface brief is very useful.
We can see very quickly that OSP was not enabled on this interface.
Now what happens if the wrong area was used to show IP vs 6 or SPF neighbor no neighbor relationship
is established.
But note we are getting a warning message about an area mismatch.
We received an update with the incorrect area so our local area is 3 but the remote area is 2.
So we all warn by the Rada about that problem.
So we need to configure the right area and as soon as we do that our neighbor relationship is established
so be aware that the same troubleshooting options exist in OSP.
Version 3 as you haven't always P.F. Version 2 the show commands a very similar output is very similar.
The logic is very similar but you're using IP version 6 addresses and protocols rather than IP version
4.